<pre>
  BIP:     BM02
  Title:   Extended Message Encoding
  Authors: Peter Šurda <dev@mailchuck.com>
  Status:  Draft
  Type:    Informational
  Created: 2016-06-28
</pre>

==Abstract==

This BIP defines a new message encoding, how it is to be interpreted by Bitmessage, and how its support should be announced and detected for backwards compatibility.

==Motivation==

The current message format only allows two fields, a message subject and a body. This causes problems for transporting and interpreting binary data and data structures.

==Extended encoding wire specification==

We define a new encoding, with a value of 3, labeled EXTENDED. This value is to be used in message objects.

The support is to be indicated in the pubkey object with the bitfield 29 (1 for does support extended, 0 for doesn't). This makes it backwards compatibile, does not require a new object format and does not require to generate a new bitmessage address.

The encoding itself uses msgpack to encode a structure, and zlib to compress it. Both msgpack and zlib are widely used standards with reference implementations in multiple programming languages.

The encoding process sample in python is:

  zlib.compress(msgpack.dumps(data), 9)

The decoding process sample in python is:

  msgpack.loads(zlib.decompress(data))

==Message data structure for extended encoding==

The data structure for encoding is still pending decision. For the time being, an example (in JSON-like format):

  {
      "": "message" Specifies the type of the object.
                    The empty string is used as key to ensure
                    that it is always sorted first.
      "subject": The message subject
      "body": The message body
      "files": [
          {
              "name": Filename
              "mimetype": Mimetype of the file
              "data": File contents
          }
      ]
      "parents": [root, ..., parent-of-parent, parent]
      "time": Unix timestamp of when the message was sent
  }

Only "" is mandatory. If "" is "message", then only subject and body are mandatory.  

==Compatible implementations==

* [[https://github.com/Bitmessage/PyBitmessage|PyBitmessage]] is the reference Bitmessage implementation which uses this specification

==Reference==
* [[https://www.reddit.com/r/bitmessage/comments/4mcc7x/proposals_for_content_data_structure/|Proposals for content data structure]]
* [[https://bitmessage.org/wiki/Protocol_specification|Protocol specification]]
